Objective :
To apply knowledge and skills of Python programming and business analytics to organize and analyze real-life data for meaningful insights.

Executive summary :
Crowdfunding means collecting funds for a project or commercial endeavor by soliciting contributions from a large number of people using an online 
platform. Our project focuses on Kiva.org, one of the world's most popular crowdfunding platforms.

Kiva.org is a prosocial crowdfunding platform where people from all around the world lend money to people in need. Kiva's purpose is to alleviate poverty
in underdeveloped nations by allowing crowd-funded interest-free loans to underprivileged individuals and organizations. Kiva has made $1.63 billion in 
loans to over 4 million borrowers in 77 countries from over 1.9 million lenders since its inception in 2005. Despite its rapid expansion, Kiva has 
managed to keep a 96.2 percent repayment rate.

In our project, we are going to predict the status of the loan either 'funded' or 'notfunded' based on different variables(features). We have use two 
models "Logistic Regression" and "Decision Tree" for data modeling.

Project motivation/background :
Kiva.org, which was founded in 2005, is one of the largest online crowdfunding platforms in the world, allowing people to lend money to under represented
entrepreneurs all around the world. Kiva's objective is to "connect people through loans to alleviate poverty," and it aims to give safe and cheap access 
to capital in areas where traditional banking services are unavailable, allowing people to become entrepreneurs and create possibilities for themselves 
and their families.

Kiva serves borrowers and lenders via the internet. Lenders who are willing to invest look through the various profiles of people looking for microcredit
based on the loan request and borrower's attributes and invests on them. Kiva does not get any income on the loans it facilitates, and neither do Kiva 
lenders. Borrowers, on the other hand, pay interest to the financing process's intermediates, known as field partners, who are effectively the ones that 
carry the majority of the risk.

Kiva is active in 77 underdeveloped countries and collaborates with 304 field partners, according to statistics obtained in March 2015. In comparison to
many other lending systems, Kiva stands out for its work with field partners. The field partners' purpose is to help the process along by creating a local
presence and advancing funds to the borrowers prior to posting the loan request on the Kiva platform, allowing the borrowers to get a head start on their 
business.Kiva has made $1.63 billion in loans from over 1.9 million lenders since its inception in 2005. Kiva has managed to keep a 96.2 percent repayment 
rate. Considering different criteria, Kiva will decide whether to fund the loan to the borrower.
